# README
This repository is an R Project used for the analysis of viruses in total metagenomes generated from upland peatland soils in the UK, as presented in [Kosmopoulos et al. (202X)]().

Original, raw sequence reads are deposited to the NCBI Sequence Read Archive under BioProject accession [PRJNAXXXXXX](). Prokaryotic metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) can be accessed from NCBI WGA under accession [PRJNAXXXXXX](). Viral genomes can be accessed from XXXXXX at [XXXXXX]().

# Repository organization
`Data` contains `.RDS` formatted data that can be loaded into R for analysis. These data include sample metadata as well as virus and host community summary statistics, virus and hsot genome information, virus and host genome counts, virus-host predictions, gene annotations, read mapping statistics, functional predictions, and more. It also includes the `.shp` shapefiles used to generate the map in Figure 1A.

`Tables` include `.csv` and `.tsv` formatted data tables used in analyses to generate the data files present in `Data`. It also contains organized and summarized data that went into the Supplementary Tables.

`Notebooks` contain R markdown notebooks of all the R code used for the analyses described here. A table of contents for these notebooks is given below. It also contains a notebook `workflow.md` with commands used for the bioinformatics workflow as described in the methods of [Kosmopoulos et al. (202X)]().

`Plots` contain saved plots (PNG formatted) that were generated by the notebooks above, organized into sub-directories by notebook.

# Notebook Table of Contents
1. [Bioinformatic workflow]()


# 
**James C. Kosmopoulos | kosmopoulos \[at\] wisc \[dot\] edu**<br>
**PhD candidate | Microbiology Doctoral Training Program**<br>
**Anantharaman lab | anantharamanlab.wisc.edu**<br>
**Department of Bacteriology | University of Wisconsin - Madison**
